It has happened that
along with me, the Council of Ministers,
Samadhipad Nayak ji,
Doctor Nagendra ji,
I have Baba Ramdev ji,
respected soul Priya Anand ji,
respected Hansraj ji
's secretary Mr. Shyam ji
and all of you gentlemen associated with yoga across the country
and the world, would
anyone have ever thought
that Rajpath can also become a path of yoga, so
today
International
Yoga Day is starting through UNO,
but I believe
that today from 21st June,
International Yoga Day,
not only is the
celebration of one day starting,
but
a
new era is starting to train the human mind to achieve these heights of Om Shanti Sadbhavana, which
sometimes is due to
ignorance towards many things,
sometimes some distortions come in,
this tradition has been going on for centuries, there are
many things in the program, there are connected in it,
today I would like to say that for
centuries,
those great men,
those sages,
those yoga gurus  The
Yoga Vyas, the worthy teachers who have carried forward this tradition for centuries, have also
added focal points of development to it.
Today, I respectfully bow to great personalities like the entire World Bank
and I am proud of them.
I believe that the department in which this science was born and to which department it has spread does not matter much to me. What
matters is that
all kinds of revolutions are taking place in the world, that
humans are reaching new heights of development, that technology has
become a part of human life, everything else is
growing
and everything else is growing at a fast pace, but it should
not happen that humans remain the same.
If humans remain the same and
all these systems develop in the world, then
this mismatch can also cause a crisis for mankind.
And therefore, it is necessary that humans should also have
internal development. The answer should be understood
that today, the
Yoga that the world has is such a science in which people of many
colors, people of many traditions, from many parts of the world have
contributed.
Accepting the contribution of all these,
how can the inner self be developed, the inner
energy?  How to make a
person strong, free from stress, and
how to make life happy on the path of Om Shanti.
In most people's minds,
yoga is
a kind of
body massage program. I think
this is the biggest mistake.
Yoga is not a program for body support.
If it were so, then the children working in the circus would be
called yogis. And therefore, just
making the body flexible and
bending it is not yoga.
We have sometimes seen that a big musical
event is going on and the
people playing the instruments are at the heart of the musical event. They keep
banging in their own way.
Someone fixes the strings, someone fixes the tabla,
someone fixes the drums. They do
n't spend 5 minutes together. That is a darshan, it seems
less to them. Friends, we will start with the
way
this tantric program happens before the music starts
and later only one melodious music comes out.
This big program of rhythm and beat is
very short in the entire music concert
or it is only that much part of the entire yoga state of intercourse. The
rest is very long here.  And that is why it has become
necessary to know and recognize the same
and we are trying to take it in that direction.
Today I
express my gratitude to the UN, I express my gratitude to the 11093 countries of the world
who
unanimously
passed such a resolution and I express my gratitude to the 11077 countries
who
became sponges and accepted the importance of yoga and today from
where the first ray of the sun has started, and where the
last ray of the sun will reach after 24 hours, there will
not be any such ray of the sun, there will not be
any such journey of the sun that
these yoga people did
not get the opportunity to bless, for the first time the world will have to hunt
that today's
president, the sun, there is
no success from the place of tears,
that entire cycle of yoga will be present wherever the sun goes,
it has reached the world today, that the
mind, intellect,
body, soul,
all of these should be
balanced, integrated, and
comfortable, yoga plays a huge role in achieving this state, that
today at the
beginning of this great festival,
this is only and only a
program for human welfare, a
program for a stress-free world,
love, peace and unity.  The aim of conveying the message of goodwill
is less and the topic was to implement it in life and even less.
I heartily wish this program all the best
and yes, we will continuously take forward the environment
of Yoga that has been created in every street and locality across India,
hence
with all my heartfelt wishes to all of you.